And The Last Lecture we created this simple observable here which would automatically add some numbers
now that we saw this.
Let's build one from scratch here.
I want to create an observable which will fire off for two seconds and after four seconds and which
will also fail after let's say five seconds then and alternatively then I want to show how that would
work if it completes.
So let's create an observable my observable maybe any name you like.
And here I will still use the observable object.
But now the create method now creates takes a function as an argument and this function should hold
your asynchronous code.
Let me show you what I mean.
So I will pass the six arrow function in here.
And as I mentioned in here we will have our logic.
This function actually receives an argument an observer of type observer.
So we can import observer from our x yes slash observer.
Now don't mistake this year with the subscriber in the subscription function.
The Observer we pass here will be our final observer but we it to the function to this anonymous function
which will make up our observable.
So we will basically tell the observer when it will receive which data which we of course need to do
when we then subscribe to it and use the observer to react to the data.
The observer will know when to react because the observable tells him.
Now there's this general set up which is mostly hidden because you subscribe to an observable which
already exists.
But if you build one from scratch you actually need to bolt this bridge from observable to observer.
So let's do this you're sort of becomes a bit clearer.
So in this callback function the body of it will set a normal timeout because after two seconds I said
I want to embed my first data package.
So you're in this set a timer function a normal javascript function in the Colback which will be executed
after two seconds.
I want to use the observer we have available inside of this overall function here and call.
Next Next emits a normal data package.
That's just something you kind of can keep in mind here if you build an observable from scratch next
basically just pushes the next data package and here you can't pass any data you want.
I simply want to pass first package.
So a string.
Now I will copy that said time and function and create a number one.
This one should form a fire after four seconds.
And here I want to execute or one to pass the second package.
So an average string.
Now after five seconds and note that I don't nest these timeouts.
So they all started at the same time after five seconds from the beginning it should fail.
So instead of next I now can call error and a potential error message.
This does not work well.
This is our observable now as before.
Let's subscribe to it.
So here I will set up the SUBSCRIBE function on my own absorbable and now it will actually pass all
three arguments.
The first argument being the callback which which gets triggered on a normal data package which doesn't
fail.
So here I will get some data which I know will be a string because I'm the creator of the observable
and I know that I will pass string data here.
And of course every observable you use even if it's from a third party provider from a third party package
showed somewhere.
Tell you which kind of data you can expect in the documentation or somewhere else.
So here I will then simply lock this data to the console.
Now I'm going to replicate this the second callback will hold the error.
And here of them for want you output the error.
Now I know that error will also be a string.
So that is all right.
The last time I replicate this it will be completed.
And here we actually won't receive any data because we can't pass one here I will simply say completed.
This won't be triggered as of now so with this I do have all my inline anonymous functions here to free
functions I can actually provide.
And one thing I should do now.
So that this actually works is on the observer.
I have to define which kind of data it will emit so I know it will be a string because as the date I
pass here all the time on next and on error.
So with that in place let's saved us and reload our page and watch what happens here in the console.
After two seconds we see this after four seconds we see this.
And then after five seconds we see does not work.
So this is the data our own observable emits.
And again we told it to emit this because we run our code to code which run asynchronously wrapped in
this function we passed to the observable when we created.
Now that is basically the same angular does for you when it gives you an observable.
It sets this up behind the scenes.
But here you see how you can create an observable on your own.
Now just for completeness sake I will comment out the error case here and say after five seconds it
actually is completed.
So I would call complete and I will also set another time out which after 6 seconds would emit a third
package.
So let's see if that ever arrives.
And let's see if we complete that here.
So this reloaded first package second package and complete it and we'd never see a third package.
Even though I do call next year a third time after six seconds this never arrives because before this
actually gets fired we complete our observable and therefore it's done it's dead.
We no longer use it.